Hello and welcome to the next video for E145 technology
entrepreneurship. In this video I will be talking about
creativity and innovation. Before we get started I want to
make a quick know about venture teams. So by now you should
be deepen the forming your three or four person teams. Two
is probably too few and five is probably too many so you
want aim for three or four. Next question is should these be
all engineers or do you want a diversity of skills. Think in
most cases you want some diversity on a team. You want
someone who's more on the business side, someone who's more
on the technical side. But, you also must match the
character six to the team to the kind of idea that you're
pursuing, so if you're pursuing a pretty technology heavy
idea, then perhaps your team is weighted more towards
engineers.

On the other hand, if your idea is something where the
technology is web based, or is more heavily emphasized on
the business, business and partnerships marketing into
things, then it might be justifiable to have the team
weighted more towards business and marketing skills. So you
want to think about what type of idea that you're going
after and match the team to that. At the end of the day,
every one on the team must pull their own weight.
Particularly for the Stanford students, at the end of the
course, we're gonna be asking your teammates, your mentors
and also the course assistants to be giving some rating of
your performance, you know, within the team. Of course, we
don't want this to happen, but if you're not finding
yourself rate within the team, it's possible for you to get
voted off from the team. So we want to make sure that
everyone is really contributing equally and make this a good
team experience for everyone.

The CAs will be checking everyone of your teams during the
course of the quarter and please let us know if any problems
develop. The key takeaways from today's sessions about
creativity an brains storming are, one, what are the sources
for new creative business ideas? Creative visionaries, lead
users, and talking to customers are often fertile sources
for new ideas. Second, that there are certain ways of
organizing that can lead to increased group creativity,
there certain processes for brainstorming that can enable it
to generate more, and higher quality new ideas. Finally we
want to think about the purpose of creativity within a start
up. And that is, how many areas within the company do you
want to be doing something new.

We will touch on each of these aspects in this video, and in
the next video. For today's agenda, we will talk about
innovative ideas, how to hack the brainstorming process, and
become more creative. We will have a couple of guest
speakers. And then we will turn it over to you, for your
turn to brainstorm. So we come to our second formula, a very
simple one for successful entrepreneurship, and that's
invention plus inspired execution. So creativity can be
useful on each of these sides. In the first place creativity
can help you come up with the invention. Can help you come
up with the new idea for the product or service. But
creativity is also useful in the execution side and on the
business side. There are gonna be challenges to bringing
this technology or this idea to market and so these business
challenges whether they be sales, marketing, distribution,
fund raising are gonna require creative solutions as well.

And so, creativity is gonna come in at each and every part
of the process, so I want to give you some framework and
some ability to improve your brainstorming and creativity
skills.
[sound] So how do we hack brainstorming? We'll get to this
in a minute. But first of all let?s talk about where do new
venture ideas come from? Where should we look? I've done
some research, both using MIT alumni and Chingwa university
alumni in China, asking the entrepreneurs, where did you get
the initial idea for your venture? And so we see a number of
different sources listed, both in school and working in
industry. If we look at the table here, we might see some
things that would surprise us, So first of all, just
focusing on the MIT and US side of things. We see that
actually the in school, the graduate thesis forms only about
4.6 percent of the ideas. Relatively small percentage, The
biggest group comes actually here, from working in the
industry.

And so it turns out working in the industry, interacting
with customers is a really prevalent source for getting new
ideas. The other common source is through other discussions,
either in social settings or at professional conferences.
And so this kind of brainstorming with, either peers or with
colleagues can be another fertile sources. We do see some
differences in the Chingwa context. And I've highlighted a
few of these in yellow. And you see in the Chinese context,
a lot more ideas coming in school from informal discussions
with classmates. We also see a lot more ideas coming from
visiting scientists and engineers Relatively fewer ideas
coming from working in industry. This may be partly due to
the fact that. The entrepreneurs from the
[inaudible] alumni sample tend to be younger and so have
less work experience. And then there's also relatively fewer
ideas from doing outside funded research. But the primary
take away from this is that a lot of ideas come from
experience with customers in the industry, seeing what needs
they have. I want to play a video clip for you and this
video I think you'll enjoy. It comes from a movie called
Dogtown and Z-Boys and Professor Eric Von Hippel at MIT
often plays this video. And so I want you to take a look at
it and think about the innovation that's going on in this
community.

[sound]. We weren't making money off of it. We didn't think
there was any future in it. And we were doing it because we
loved doing it.
[sound].

>>
[sound]. In the'70s, California experienced the worst
drought on record. And the city government wouldn't allow
you to water your lawn. You weren't even allowed to serve
water at a restaurant. And so what happened is all these
swimming pools which are abundant in Southern California
were drying up.

>> California's drought served as a midwife to the
skateboard revolution, as hundreds of pools across the Los.

>> Los Angeles basin were left empty, and unused.
[sound].

>> Ounce pool riding came in, you know, that's like all that
we wanted to do.
[sound].

>> We were like the first people that were riding these
empty swimming pools, and we had no idea what we could do.
[sound].

>> I remember first goal, first day, was to make it over the
light, that.

>>
[sound]. That was the first accomplishment in the pool was
to over the light successfully.
[sound]. From there, we started doing double carves, and
hitting tile on both sides.

>> Our goal was to get to the lip and to actually hit the
lip of the pool. So it was, like, completely foreign
mentally and physically, but the, the fact that we were
surfers; we knew which movements needed to be done. We just
didn't know if they were possible yet.
[sound].

>>
[sound]. And then it got to the point where we were getting
on one wheel. The all, other three wheels are out of the
pool. That one wheel's on the
[inaudible] above the tile, and flying back in.

>> We were definitely the first guys, I mean, the whole
Dogtown crew, to really take it to the top, to the lip, and
actually grind and pivot on the lip.

>> And you have to understand that what they were doing on
skateboards, it just had never been done anywhere else
before. There was just no such thing.

>>
[sound]. In a covert convergence, skaters would come from
miles around to savor.

>> The fleeting illicit thrills of skateboarding inside a
recently discovered backyard pool.

>> Once we found a couple good spots, we knew that there was
more of them available, and we just kept scouring the
neighborhood.

>> We did extensive searching looking for backyard pools.

>> We would drive up and down the alleys in, in the valley,
standing on the roofs of the cars.

>> Jay got on the top of my car, and we're driving down
alley after alley in Beverly Hills. And Jay is, like, on the
top of my car going, no, no, wait, wait, you know?

>> We'd go up and down the alleys on our bicycles, and jump
up and look over the fences.

>> You'd go up and down canyons.

>>
[sound] Take vantage points and we had binoculars.

>> We went to places where the pool was completely filled in
with dirt. We dug out an entire swimming pool so that we
could skate it.

>> We would find some that were full of water but they had
to be emptied one way or the other. I mean they just had to
be, the water had to go and they had to be ridden, man. You
know what I mean?

>>
[laugh]

>> And at one point we were, we were so guerrilla about it,
we had electric pool pumps. Gasoline operated pool pumps.
Hundreds of yards of, drainage hose. Brooms.

>> Everything you needed.
[sound] ...

>> There's plenty of times we've found pools. We'd throw the
pump in there. Throw a wire over a wall, find a live socket.
Didn't know the house, Didn't know any of the neighbors?, or
any of the people. Water would be running out.

>> And we'd drain a 30,000 gallon swimming pool in less than
four hours.
[sound] ...

>> Any house that was up for sale that had a pool, nine
times out of ten it was drained, or maybe it had two feet of
water in it. We'd drain the rest out and we'd skate until
the cops came. And then we'd split.

>> The tension was really high.

>> And you had to do what you had to here and now, and it
didn't come later.

>> When you have an empty swimming pool that you know might
only be open for a day or a day and a half, and that's it,
you gotta skate it for as long as you can.

>> You had to almost, like, time yourself to be in there,
trying to get there early in the morning, trying to get a
few runs, and get out of there before the cops came, you
know?

>> It was totally just illegal barging sessions.

>> And as soon as we heard either sirens, screeching tires,
someone would yell the magic words bail, and we were outta
there.

>> You could definitely get arrested. I mean you could
probably get
[inaudible].

>> That's a lot of money, because let's face it, the pools
weren't the same after we got done with them, and...

>> It bout killed me though. You could have killed me if you
had to
[inaudible] that kind of way.

>> Part of it was, the thrill of, knowing that the police
could come any time.

>> We got caught skating in the canyon pool and I was hiding
up in the tree looking down, and there was cops below me
looking for us, and I was afraid I was going to drop my
skateboard and nail them in the head. I thought, "My God, I'
m gonna be arrested, you know, for assault and battery."...
...

>> If we got caught at a location we'd go back the next day
and we'd figure out how to not get caught that way.

>> So, if they came in the front, we post a lookout in the
front. They came in through the back we post a guard in the
front and the back and we go through the side yard.

>> You've got to understand man this is concrete warfare we'
re talkin' about. This is this is you might find a pool and
it might, it's a here today, gone tomorrow. If you're gonna
ride it you better get on that shit.

>>
[sound] I said there ain't nobody out there the even wants
to be a little bit mellow now is there? Anybody wants to get
mellow, you can turn around and get the fuck out of here
alright!

>>
[sound]. With the drought in full effect, there was nothing
to prevent invading skaters from turning someone's backyard
paradise into a riotous ensemble. No pool was left
untouched, and any kid could be king for a day.

>> There'd be five or ten guys really rocking and rolling in
the pool, you know, each pushing each other's limits. It was
an incredible scene. You could feel the energy coming out of
the pool, it was intense. Just to be there standing on the
deck was
[inaudible].

>>
[sound].
[inaudible]. Because you are privy to something that you
don't readily see anywhere else, you know? If you were in
the pool, standing in there, getting ready to take a run,
you were even badder. But if you were an actual player, you
know, busting moves and pushing the limits of the session
going on, you were straight out punk rock star. I mean, big
time.

>> We pushed each other all the time. We pushed and praised.
You come off of a heavy grind, and all your bros are.

>>
[inaudible]. We were getting each other's adrenaline level
so high. That's how the stuff evolved.

>> On any given day, anybody who was the best. It was almost
like a daily competition between all of us to see who could
pull of the hottest shit. And then we'd look up into the
shallow end at each other and go, wow!

>> When Tony Alva, or Stacy Peralta, or Jay Adams, or
[inaudible] or
[inaudible] or
[inaudible], any of these guys step into a pool. It's like,
even if they didn't know them, as soon as these guys rode,
other people would just wanna sit down and watch and learn.
[sound]. I mean that's what it really was. You talk about
special.
[sound] So what you see in this video is really an example
of the user innovation and creativity process. This is a
group of lead users who are essentially inventing the sport
of high performance skating. So you see that they're not
doing it necessarily for financial gain. They're doing it
purely because they enjoy it. So these lead users,
individuals who are at the cutting edge, who are innovating
out of their own desire for a new product or a new solution,
are often a very fertile source for new product ideas, and
even whole new industries. And so, another way to think
about this is that this community is really supporting one
another in innovating. You can see how they're encouraging
each other on to be creative.

And so I hope this is also partly what this class can
provide to you. A community of peers who can help encourage
you on your entrepreneurial ventures. Each week you'll be
giving updates and the rest of the class and your peers can
see what you're doing in your entrepreneurial ventures, what
creative solutions you've come across and hopefully become
inspired by that with their own ventures.
[sound]. So there's actually been some research done, on
lead users as a source of new product innovation. Eric Von
Hippel and colleagues from MIT have done some research with
the company 3-M. So they looked at one set of product
development teams that used the traditional model of
brainstorming internally, coming up with potential new
product ideas and bringing those to the market. They took
another group of product development teams and had them go
out and talk to lead users and see what new product ideas
they could get from them. They then followed each of these
sets of products over time to see what they generated in
terms of sales for the company. And so we can see here from
the table that we have the lead user ideas on the left, and
the non-lead user ideas on the right.

So they had some external experts compare the novelty of
these products compared with competition. And you see that
the lead user ideas were rated as much more novel and had
significantly higher originality or newness. They also, and
importantly for the company, had significantly higher market
share in year five and significantly higher sales, Relative
to the non-lead user ideas. So we are looking at sales of a
146 million dollars in year five relative to 80 million
dollars in year five. Interestingly, the lead user ideas
also had significantly higher potential for creating an
entire new product family.

So these were potentially new platforms that could support a
number of new products. So let's, let's take a closer look.
If we just focus on the lead user ideas and the non-lead
user ideas that form major new product lines, we see a
similar pattern in terms of the level of innovation and also
the sales generated and market share differences across the
two. Interestingly, the operating profit was not
significantly different and the probability of success was
rated similarly. So There is actually systematic statistical
evidence that lead user generated ideas and getting new
product ideas from talking to customers can lead to more
original, more novel, and higher performing new products.
So, that's it for now. In our next video, I'll talk a bit
about what are the characteristics of high quality
brainstorming sessions?
